See, ho! who is thatthere?
It is the Lord AEneas.
Is the prince there inperson?
Had I so good occasion tolie long
As you, prince Paris, nothingbut heavenly business
Should rob my bed-mate ofmy company.
That's my mind too. Goodmorrow, Lord AEneas.
A valiant Greek,AEneas,--take his hand,--
Witness the process ofyour speech, wherein
You told how Diomed, awhole week by days,
Did haunt you in thefield.
Health to you, valiantsir,
During all question of thegentle truce;
But when I meet you arm'd,as black defiance
As heart can think orcourage execute.
The one and other Diomedembraces.
Our bloods are now in calm;and, so long, health!
But when contention andoccasion meet,
By Jove, I'll play thehunter for thy life
With all my force, pursuitand policy.
And thou shalt hunt alion, that will fly
With his face backward. Inhumane gentleness,
Welcome to Troy! now, byAnchises' life,
Welcome, indeed! By Venus'hand I swear,
No man alive can love insuch a sort
The thing he means to killmore excellently.
We sympathize: Jove, letAEneas live,
If to my sword his fate benot the glory,
A thousand completecourses of the sun!
But, in mine emuloushonour, let him die,
With every joint a wound,and that to-morrow!
We know each other well.
We do; and long to knoweach other worse.
This is the most despitefulgentle greeting,
The noblest hateful love,that e'er I heard of.
What business, lord, soearly?
I was sent for to theking; but why, I know not.
His purpose meets you:'twas to bring this Greek
To Calchas' house, andthere to render him,
For the enfreed Antenor,the fair Cressid:
Let's have your company,or, if you please,
Haste there before us: Iconstantly believe--
Or rather, call my thoughta certain knowledge--
My brother Troilus lodgesthere to-night:
Rouse him and give himnote of our approach.
With the whole qualitywherefore: I fear
We shall be muchunwelcome.
That I assure you:
Troilus had rather Troywere borne to Greece
Than Cressid borne fromTroy.
There is no help;
The bitter disposition ofthe time
Will have it so. On, lord;we'll follow you.
Good morrow, friend.
And tell me, noble Diomed,faith, tell me true,
Even in the soul of soundgood-fellowship,
Who, in your thoughts,merits fair Helen best,
Myself or Menelaus?
Both alike:
He merits well to haveher, that doth seek her,
Not making any scruple ofher soilure,
With such a hell of painand world of charge,
And you as well to keepher, that defend her,
Not palating the taste ofher dishonour,
With such a costly loss ofwealth and friends:
He, like a puling cuckold,would drink up
The lees and dregs of aflat tamed piece;
You, like a lecher, out ofwhorish loins
Are pleased to breed outyour inheritors:
Both merits poised, eachweighs nor less nor more;
But he as he, the heavierfor a whore.
You are too bitter to yourcountrywoman.
She's bitter to hercountry: hear me, Paris:
For every false drop inher bawdy veins
A Grecian's life hathsunk; for every scruple
Of her contaminatedcarrion weight,
A Trojan hath been slain:since she could speak,
She hath not given so manygood words breath
As for her Greeks andTrojans suffer'd death.
Fair Diomed, you do aschapmen do,
Dispraise the thing thatyou desire to buy:
But we in silence holdthis virtue well,
We'll but commend what weintend to sell.
Here lies our way.
Dear, trouble not yourself:the morn is cold.
Then, sweet my lord, I'llcall mine uncle down;
He shall unbolt the gates.
Trouble him not;
To bed, to bed: sleep killthose pretty eyes,
And give as softattachment to thy senses
As infants' empty of allthought!
Good morrow, then.
I prithee now, to bed.
Are you a-weary of me?
O Cressida! but that thebusy day,
Waked by the lark, hathroused the ribald crows,
And dreaming night willhide our joys no longer,
I would not from thee.
Night hath been too brief.
Beshrew the witch! withvenomous wights she stays
As tediously as hell, butflies the grasps of love
With wings moremomentary-swift than thought.
You will catch cold, andcurse me.
Prithee, tarry:
You men will never tarry.
O foolish Cressid! I mighthave still held off,
And then you would havetarried. Hark!
there's one up.
What, 's all the doorsopen here?
It is your uncle.
A pestilence on him! nowwill he be mocking:
I shall have such a life!
How now, how now!how go maidenheads?
Here, you maid! where'smy cousin Cressid?
Go hang yourself, younaughty mocking uncle!
You bring me to do, andthen you flout me too.
To do what? to do what?let her say
what: what have I broughtyou to do?
Come, come, beshrew yourheart! you'll ne'er be good,
Nor suffer others.
Ha! ha! Alas, poor wretch!ah, poor capocchia!
hast not slept to-night?would he not, a naughty man,
let it sleep? abugbear take him!
Did not I tell you? Would hewere knock'd i' the head!
(Knocking)
Hark. Who's that at door? gooduncle, go and see.
My lord, come you againinto my chamber:
You smile and mock me, asif I meant naughtily.
Ha, ha!
Come, you are deceived, Ithink of no such thing.
(Knocking within)
How earnestly they knock!Pray you, come in:
I would not for half Troyhave you seen here.
My LordAEneas! By my troth,
I knew you not: what newswith you so early?
Is not Prince Troilushere?
Here! what should he dohere?
Come, he is here, my lord;do not deny him:
It doth import him much tospeak with me.
Is he here, say you?'tis more than I know,
I'll be sworn: for my ownpart, I came in late.
What should he do here?
Who!--nay, then: come,come, you'll do him wrong
ere you're ware: you'llbe so true to him,
to be false to him: donot you know of him,
but yet go fetchhim hither; go.
How now! what's thematter?
My lord, I scarce haveleisure to salute you,
My matter is so rash:there is at hand
Paris your brother, andDeiphobus,
The Grecian Diomed, andour Antenor
Deliver'd to us; and forhim forthwith,
Ere the first sacrifice,within this hour,
We must give up toDiomedes' hand
The Lady Cressida.
Is it so concluded?
By Priam and the generalstate of Troy:
They are at hand and readyto effect it.
How my achievements mockme!
I will go meet them: and,my Lord AEneas,
We met by chance; you didnot find me here.
Good, good, my lord; thesecrets of nature
Have not more gift intaciturnity.
Is't possible? nosooner got but lost?
The devil take Antenor! theyoung prince will go mad:
a plague upon Antenor! I wouldthey had broke 's neck!
How now! what's thematter? who was here?
Ah, ah!
Why sigh you so profoundly?where's my lord? gone!
Tell me, sweet uncle,what's the matter?
Would I were as deep underthe earth as I am above!
O the gods! what's thematter?
Prithee, get thee in: wouldthou hadst ne'er been born!
I knew thou wouldstbe his death.
O, poor gentleman! Aplague upon Antenor!
Good uncle, I beseech you,
what's the matter?
Thou must be gone, wench,thou must be gone;
thou art changed for Antenor:thou must to thy father,
and be gone from Troilus:'twill be his death;
'twill be his bane; hecannot bear it.
O you immortal gods! Iwill not go.
Thou must.
I will not, uncle: I haveforgot my father;
I know no touch ofconsanguinity;
No kin no love, no blood,no soul so near me
As the sweet Troilus. Oyou gods divine!
Make Cressid's name thevery crown of falsehood,
If ever she leave Troilus!Time, force, and death,
Do to this body whatextremes you can;
But the strong base andbuilding of my love
Is as the very centre ofthe earth,
Drawing all things to it.
(Cressida starts crying)
I'll go in and weep,--
Do, do.
Tear my bright hair andscratch my praised cheeks,
Crack my clear voice withsobs and break my heart
With sounding Troilus. Iwill not go from Troy.
Be moderate, be moderate.
Why tell you me ofmoderation?
The grief is fine, full,perfect, that I taste,
And violenteth in a senseas strong
As that which causeth it:how can I moderate it?
If I could temporize withmy affection,
Or brew it to a weak andcolder palate,
The like allayment could Igive my grief.
My love admits noqualifying dross;
No more my grief, in sucha precious loss.
Here, here, here he comes.
Ah, sweet ducks!
O Troilus! Troilus!
What a pair of spectaclesis here!
Let me embrace too.How now, lambs?
Cressid, I love thee in sostrain'd a purity,
That the bless'd gods, asangry with my fancy,
More bright in zeal thanthe devotion which
Cold lips blow to theirdeities, take thee from me.
Have the gods envy?
Ay, ay, ay, ay; 'tis tooplain a case.
And is it true that I mustgo from Troy?
A hateful truth.
What, and from Troilustoo?
From Troy and Troilus.
Is it possible?
And suddenly; where injuryof chance
Puts back leave-taking,justles roughly by
All time of pause, rudelybeguiles our lips
Of all rejoindure,forcibly prevents
Our lock'd embrasures,strangles our dear vows
Even in the birth of ourown labouring breath:
We two, that with so manythousand sighs
Did buy each other, mustpoorly sell ourselves
With the rude brevity anddischarge of one.
Injurious time now with arobber's haste
Crams his rich thieveryup, he knows not how:
As many farewells as bestars in heaven,
With distinct breath andconsign'd kisses to them,
He fumbles up into a loseadieu,
And scants us with asingle famish'd kiss,
Distasted with the salt ofbroken tears.
[Within] My lord, is thelady ready?
Hark! you are call'd: somesay the Genius so
Cries 'come' to him thatinstantly must die.
Bid them have patience;she shall come anon.
Where are my tears?rain, to lay this wind,
or my heart will beblown up by the root.
I must then to theGrecians?
No remedy.
A woful Cressid 'mongstthe merry Greeks!
When shall we see again?
Hear me, my love: be thoutrue and I will see thee--
I true! how now! whatwicked deem is this?
Nay, we must useexpostulation kindly,
For it is parting from us:
I speak not 'be thoutrue,' as fearing thee,
For I will throw my gloveto Death himself,
That there's no maculationin thy heart:
But 'be thou true,' say I,to fashion in
My sequent protestation;be thou true,
And I will see thee.
O, you shall be exposed,my lord, to dangers
As infinite as imminent!but I'll be true.
And I'll grow friend withdanger. Wear this sleeve.
And you this glove. Whenshall I see you?
I will corrupt the Greciansentinels,
To give thee nightlyvisitation.
But yet be true.
O heavens! 'be true'again!
Hear while I speak it,love:
The Grecian youths arefull of quality;
They're loving, well composedwith gifts of nature,
Flowing and swelling o'erwith arts and exercise:
How novelty may move, andparts with person,
Alas, a kind of godlyjealousy--
Which, I beseech you, calla virtuous sin--
Makes me afeard.
O heavens! you love menot.
Die I a villain, then!
In this I do not call yourfaith in question
So mainly as my merit: Icannot sing,
Nor heel the high lavolt,nor sweeten talk,
Nor play at subtle games;fair virtues all,
To which the Grecians aremost prompt and pregnant:
But I can tell that ineach grace of these
There lurks a still anddumb-discoursive devil
That tempts most cunningly:but be not tempted.
Do you think I will?
No.
But something may be donethat we will not:
And sometimes we aredevils to ourselves,
When we will tempt thefrailty of our powers,
Presuming on theirchangeful potency.
Nay, good my lord,--
Come, kiss; and let uspart.
(from outside) Brother Troilus!
Good brother, come youhither;
And bring AEneas and theGrecian with you.
My lord, will you be true?
Who, I? alas, it is myvice, my fault:
Whiles others fish withcraft for great opinion,
I with great truth catchmere simplicity;
Whilst some with cunninggild their copper crowns,
With truth and plainness Ido wear mine bare.
Fear not my truth: themoral of my wit
Is 'plain and true;' there'sall the reach of it.
Welcome, Sir Diomed! hereis the lady
Which for Antenor wedeliver you:
At the port, lord, I'llgive her to thy hand,
And by the way possessthee what she is.
Entreat her fair; and, bymy soul, fair Greek,
If e'er thou stand atmercy of my sword,
Name Cressida and thy lifeshall be as safe
As Priam is in Ilion.
Fair Lady Cressid,
So please you, save thethanks this prince expects:
The lustre in your eye,heaven in your cheek,
Pleads your fair usage;and to Diomed
You shall be mistress, andcommand him wholly.
Grecian, thou dost not useme courteously,
To shame the zeal of mypetition to thee
In praising her: I tellthee, lord of Greece,
She is as far high-soaringo'er thy praises
As thou unworthy to becall'd her servant.
I charge thee use herwell, even for my charge;
For, by the dreadfulPluto, if thou dost not,
Though the great bulkAchilles be thy guard,
I'll cut thy throat.
O, be not moved, PrinceTroilus:
Let me be privileged by myplace and message,
To be a speaker free; whenI am hence
I'll answer to my lust:and know you, lord,
I'll nothing do on charge:to her own worth
She shall be prized; butthat you say 'be't so,'
I'll speak it in my spiritand honour, 'no.'
Come, to the port. I'lltell thee, Diomed,
This brave shall oft makethee to hide thy head.
Lady, give me your hand,and, as we walk,
To our own selves bend weour needful talk.
(Cressida stops crying)
(♪trumpet plays)
Hark! Hector's trumpet.
How have we spent thismorning!
The prince must think metardy and remiss,
That sore to ride beforehim to the field.
'Tis Troilus' fault: come,come, to field with him.
Yea, with a bridegroom'sfresh alacrity,
Let us address to tend onHector's heels:
The glory of our Troy doththis day lie
On his fair worth andsingle chivalry.
(screams)
Here art thou inappointment fresh and fair,
Anticipating time withstarting courage.
Give with thy trumpet aloud note to Troy,
Thou dreadful Ajax; thatthe appalled air
May pierce the head of thegreat combatant
And hale him hither.
Thou, trumpet, there's mypurse.
Now crack thy lungs, andsplit thy brazen pipe:
Blow, villain, till thysphered bias cheek
Outswell the colic ofpuff'd Aquilon:
Come, stretch thy chest andlet thy eyes spout blood;
Thou blow'st for Hector.
(♪Trumpet sounds)
No trumpet answers.
'Tis but early days.
Is not yond Diomed, withCalchas' daughter?
'Tis he, I ken the mannerof his gait;
He rises on the toe: thatspirit of his
In aspiration lifts himfrom the earth.
Is this the Lady Cressid?
Even she.
Most dearly welcome to theGreeks, sweet lady.
Our general doth saluteyou with a kiss.
Yet is the kindness butparticular;
'Twere better she werekiss'd in general.
And very courtly counsel:I'll begin.
So much for Nestor.
I'll take what winter fromyour lips, fair lady:
Achilles bids you welcome.
I had good argument forkissing once.
But that's no argument forkissing now;
For this popp'd Paris inhis hardiment,
And parted thus you andyour argument.
O deadly gall, and themeof all our scorns!
For which we lose ourheads to gild his horns.
The first was Menelaus'kiss; this, mine:
Patroclus kisses you.
O, this is trim!
Paris and I kiss evermorefor him.
I'll have my kiss, sir.Lady, by your leave.
In kissing, do you renderor receive?
Both take and give.
I'll make my match tolive,
The kiss you take isbetter than you give;
Therefore no kiss.
I'll give you boot, I'llgive you three for one.
You're an odd man; giveeven or give none.
An odd man, lady! everyman is odd.
No, Paris is not; for youknow 'tis true,
That you are odd, and heis even with you.
You fillip me o' the head.
No, I'll be sworn.
It were no match, yournail against his horn.
May I, sweet lady, beg akiss of you?
You may.
I do desire it.
Why, beg, then.
Why then for Venus' sake,give me a kiss,
When Helen is a maidagain, and his.
I am your debtor, claim itwhen 'tis due.
Never's my day, and then akiss of you.
Lady, a word: I'll bringyou to your father.
A woman of quick sense.
Fie, fie upon her!
There's language in hereye, her cheek, her lip, her eye
Nay, her foot speaks;her wanton spirits look out
At every joint and motiveof her body.
O, these encounterers, soglib of tongue,
That give accostingwelcome ere it comes,
And wide unclasp thetables of their thoughts
To every ticklish reader!set them down
For sluttish spoils ofopportunity
And daughters of the game.
(♪ Trojans' trumpet sounds)
Yonder comes the troop.
Hail, all you state ofGreece! what shall be done
To him that victorycommands? or do you purpose
A victor shall be known?will you the knights
Shall to the edge of allextremity
Pursue each other, orshall be divided
By any voice or order ofthe field?
Hector bade ask.
Which way would Hectorhave it?
He cares not; he'll obeyconditions.
'Tis done like Hector; butsecurely done,
A little proudly, andgreat deal misprizing
The knight opposed.
If not Achilles, sir,
What is your name?
If not Achilles, nothing.
Therefore Achilles: but,whate'er, know this:
In the extremity of greatand little,
Valour and pride excelthemselves in Hector;
The one almost as infiniteas all,
The other blank asnothing. Weigh him well,
And that which looks likepride is courtesy.
This Ajax is half made ofHector's blood:
In love whereof, halfHector stays at home;
Half heart, half hand,half Hector comes to seek
This blended knight, halfTrojan and half Greek.
A maiden battle, then? O,I perceive you.
Here is Sir Diomed. Go,gentle knight,
Stand by our Ajax: as youand Lord AEneas
Consent upon the order oftheir fight,
So be it; either to theuttermost,
Or else a breath: thecombatants being kin
Half stints their strifebefore their strokes begin.
They are opposed already.
What Trojan is that samethat looks so heavy?
The youngest son ofPriam, a true knight,
they call him Troilus.
Not yet mature, yetmatchless, firm of word,
Speaking in deeds anddeedless in his tongue;
Not soon provoked nor beingprovoked soon calm'd:
His heart and hand bothopen and both free;
For what he has he gives,what thinks he shows;
Yet gives he not tilljudgment guide his bounty,
Manly as Hector, but moredangerous;
For Hector in his blaze ofwrath subscribes
To tender objects, but hein heat of action
Is more vindicative thanjealous love:
They call him Troilus, andon him erect
A second hope, as fairlybuilt as Hector.
Thus says AEneas; one thatknows the youth
Even to his inches, andwith private soul
They are in action.
Did in great Ilion thustranslate him to me.
You must no more.
Princes, enough, so pleaseyou.
I am not warm yet; let usfight again.
As Hector pleases.
Why, then will I no more:
Thou art, great lord, myfather's sister's son,
A cousin-german to greatPriam's seed;
The obligation of ourblood forbids
A gory emulation 'twixt ustwain:
Were thy commixtion Greekand Trojan so
That thou couldst say'This hand is Grecian all,
And this is Trojan; thesinews of this leg
All Greek, and this allTroy; my mother's blood
Runs on the dexter cheek,and this sinister
Bounds in my father's;' byJove multipotent,
Thou shouldst not bearfrom me a Greekish member
Wherein my sword had notimpressure made
Of our rank feud: but thejust gods gainsay
That any drop thouborrow'dst from thy mother,
My sacred aunt, should bymy mortal sword
Be drain'd! Let me embracethee, Ajax:
By him that thunders, thouhast lusty arms;
Hector would have themfall upon him thus:
Cousin, all honour tothee!
I thank thee, Hector
Thou art too gentle andtoo free a man:
I came to kill thee,cousin, and bear hence
A great addition earned inthy death.
Not Neoptolemus somirable,
On whose bright crest Famewith her loud'st Oyes
Cries 'This is he,' couldpromise to himself
A thought of added honourtorn from Hector.
There is expectance herefrom both the sides,
What further you will do.
We'll answer it;
The issue is embracement:Ajax, farewell.
If I might in entreatiesfind success--
As seld I have thechance--I would desire
My famous cousin to ourGrecian tents.
'Tis Agamemnon's wish, andgreat Achilles
Doth long to see unarm'dthe valiant Hector.
AEneas, call my brotherTroilus to me,
And signify this lovinginterview
To the expecters of ourTrojan part;
Desire them home. Give methy hand, my cousin;
I will go eat with theeand see your knights.
Great Agamemnon comes tomeet us here.
The worthiest of them tellme name by name;
But for Achilles, mine ownsearching eyes
Shall find him by hislarge and portly size.
Worthy of arms! as welcomeas to one
That would be rid of suchan enemy;
But that's no welcome:understand more clear,
What's past and what's tocome is strew'd with husks
And formless ruin ofoblivion;
But in this extant moment,faith and troth,
Strain'd purely from allhollow bias-drawing,
Bids thee, with mostdivine integrity,
From heart of very heart,great Hector, welcome.
I thank thee, mostimperious Agamemnon.
My well-famed lord ofTroy, no less to you.
Let me confirm my princelybrother's greeting:
You brace of warlikebrothers, welcome hither.
Who must we answer?
The noble Menelaus.
O, you, my lord? by Marshis gauntlet, thanks!
Mock not, that I affectthe untraded oath;
Your quondam wife swearsstill by Venus' glove:
She's well, but bade menot commend her to you.
Name her not now, sir;she's a deadly theme.
O, pardon; I offend.
I have, thou gallantTrojan, seen thee oft
Labouring for destiny makecruel way
Through ranks of Greekishyouth, and I have seen thee,
As hot as Perseus, spurthy Phrygian steed,
Despising many forfeitsand subduements,
When thou hast hung thyadvanced sword i' the air,
Not letting it decline onthe declined,
That I have said to somemy standers by
'Lo, Jupiter is yonder,dealing life!'
And I have seen thee pauseand take thy breath,
When that a ring of Greekshave hemm'd thee in,
Like an Olympian wrestling:this have I seen;
But this thy countenance,still lock'd in steel,
I never saw till now. Iknew thy grandsire,
And once fought with him:he was a soldier good;
But, by great Mars, thecaptain of us all,
Never saw like thee. Letan old man embrace thee;
And, worthy warrior,welcome to our tents.
'Tis the old Nestor.
Let me embrace thee, goodold chronicle,
That hast so long walk'dhand in hand with time:
Most reverend Nestor, I amglad to clasp thee.
I would my arms couldmatch thee in contention,
As they contend with theein courtesy.
I would they could.
Ha!
By this white beard, I'ldfight with thee to-morrow.
Well, welcome, welcome! Ihave seen the time.
I wonder now how yondercity stands
When we have here her baseand pillar by us.
I know your favour, LordUlysses, well.
Ah, sir, there's many aGreek and Trojan dead,
Since first I saw yourselfand Diomed
In Ilion, on your Greekishembassy.
Sir, I foretold you thenwhat would ensue:
My prophecy is but halfhis journey yet;
For yonder walls, thatpertly front your town,
Yond towers, whose wantontops do buss the clouds,
Must kiss their own feet.
I must not believe you:
There they stand yet, andmodestly I think,
The fall of every Phrygianstone will cost
A drop of Grecian blood:the end crowns all,
And that oldcommon arbitrator,
Time, Will one day end it.
So to him we leave it.
Most gentle and mostvaliant Hector, welcome:
After the general, Ibeseech you next
To feast with me and seeme at my tent.
I shall forestall thee,Lord Ulysses, thou!
Now, Hector, I have fedmine eyes on thee;
I have with exact viewperused thee, Hector,
And quoted joint by joint.
Is this Achilles?
I am Achilles.
Stand fair, I pray thee:let me look on thee.
Behold thy fill.
Nay, I have done already.
Thou art too brief: I willthe second time,
As I would buy thee, viewthee limb by limb.
O, like a book of sportthou'lt read me o'er;
But there's more in methan thou understand'st.
Why dost thou so oppressme with thine eye?
Tell me, you heavens, inwhich part of his body
Shall I destroy him? whetherthere, or there, or there?
That I may give the localwound a name
And make distinct the verybreach whereout
Hector's great spiritflew: answer me, heavens!
It would discredit theblest gods, proud man,
To answer such a question:stand again:
Think'st thou to catch mylife so pleasantly
As to prenominate in niceconjecture
Where thou wilt hit medead?
I tell thee, yea.
Wert thou an oracle totell me so,
I'd not believe thee.Henceforth guard thee well;
For I'll not kill theethere, nor there, nor there;
But, by the forge thatstithied Mars his helm,
I'll kill thee everywhere, yea, o'er and o'er.
You wisest Grecians,pardon me this brag;
His insolence draws follyfrom my lips;
But I'll endeavour deedsto match these words,
Or may I never--
Do not chafe thee, cousin:
And you, Achilles, letthese threats alone,
Till accident or purposebring you to't:
You may have every dayenough of Hector
If you have stomach; thegeneral state, I fear,
Can scarce entreat you tobe odd with him.
I pray you, let us see youin the field:
We have had pelting wars,since you refused
The Grecians' cause.
Dost thou entreat me,Hector?
To-morrow do I meet thee,fell as death;
To-night all friends.
Thy hand upon that match.
First, all you peers ofGreece, go to my tent;
There in the full convivewe: afterwards,
As Hector's leisure andyour bounties shall
Concur together, severallyentreat him.
Beat loud the tabourines,let the trumpets blow,
That this great soldiermay his welcome know.
My Lord Ulysses, tell me,I beseech you,
In what place of the fielddoth Calchas keep?
At Menelaus' tent, mostprincely Troilus:
There Diomed doth feastwith him to-night;
Who neither looks upon theheaven nor earth,
But gives all gaze andbent of amorous view
On the fair Cressid.
Shall sweet lord, be boundto you so much,
After we part fromAgamemnon's tent,
To bring me thither?
You shall command me, sir.
As gentle tell me,of what honour was
This Cressida in Troy?Had she no lover there
That wails her absence?
O, sir, to such asboasting show their scars
A mock is due. Will youwalk on, my lord?
She was beloved, sheloved; she is, and doth:
But still sweet love isfood for fortune's tooth.